docs(portal): add helpers to template (#1892)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/enterprise/1.3-x/developer-portal/working-with-templates.md

<h1>Post Two</h1>
<p>This is my second post!</p>
```

### List of Helper Functions

# Kong Template Helpers - Lua API

> Kong Template Helpers are a collection of objects that not only give access to your portal data at time of render, but provide powerful integrations into Kong as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kong Template Helpers are a collection of objects that give access to your portal data at the time of render and provide powerful integrations into Kong.
```

## Globals

- [`l`](#lkey-fallback) - Locale helper, first version, gets values from the currently active page.

> - [`each`](#eachlist_or_table) - Commonly used helper to iterate over lists / tables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [`each`](#eachlist_or_table) - Commonly used helper to iterate over lists or tables.
```

suggest avoiding slash. At least remove extra spaces. or implies and.

- [`print`](#printany) - Commonly used helper to print lists / tables.
- [`markdown`](#printany) - Commonly used helper to print lists / tables.
- [`json_decode`](#json_decode) - Decode JSON to Lua table.
- [`json_encode`](#json_encode) - Encode Lua table to JSON.

## Objects

- [`portal`](#portal) - The portal object refers to the current workspace portal being accessed.

> - [`page`](#page) - The page object refers to the currently active page, and it's contents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`page`](#page) - The page object refers to the currently active page, and its contents.
```

> - [`page`](#page) - The page object refers to the currently active page, and it's contents.

Reviewer 2: Gayles suggestion was correct. it's is a contraction for it is. its' is possessive and doesn't require an apostrophe such as its.

- [`user`](#user) - The user object represents the currently logged in developer accessing the Kong Portal.

> - [`theme`](#theme) - The theme object represents the currently active theme, and it's variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`theme`](#theme) - The theme object represents the currently active theme and its variables.
```

Reviewer 2: Again, Gayle's suggestions should be implemented.

> - [`tbl`](#tbl) = Table helper methods. Examples: `map`, `filter`, `find`, `sort`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [`tbl`](#tbl) = Table helper methods. Examples: `map`, `filter`, `find`, `sort`.
```

> - [`str`](#str) = String helper methods. Examples: `lower`, `upper`, `reverse`, `endswith`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [`str`](#str) = String helper methods. Examples: `lower`, `upper`, `reverse`, `endswith`.
```

- [`helpers`](#helpers) - Helper functions simplify common tasks or provide easy shortcuts to Kong Portal methods.

## Terminology / Definitions

> - `list` - Also referred to commonly as an array (`[1, 2, 3]`) in lua is a table-like object (`{1, 2, 3}`). Lua list index starts at `1` not `0`. Values can be accessed by array notation (`list[1]`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `list` - Also referred to commonly as an array (`[1, 2, 3]`) in Lua is a table-like object (`{1, 2, 3}`). Lua list index starts at `1` not `0`. Values can be accessed by array notation (`list[1]`).
```

Reviewer 2: Should be consistent and use Lua.

> - `table` - Also commonly-known-as an object or hashmap (`{1: 2}`) in lua looks like (`{1 = 2}`). Values can be accessed by array or dot notation (`table.one or table["one"]`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `table` - Also commonly-known-as an object or hashmap (`{1: 2}`) in Lua looks like (`{1 = 2}`). Values can be accessed by array or dot notation (`table.one or table["one"]`).
```

> - `table` - Also commonly-known-as an object or hashmap (`{1: 2}`) in lua looks like (`{1 = 2}`). Values can be accessed by array or dot notation (`table.one or table["one"]`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `table` - Also commonly known as an object or hashmap (`{1: 2}`) in Lua looks like (`{1 = 2}`). Values can be accessed by array or dot notation (`table.one or table["one"]`).
```

don't need hyphens

# Globals
## `l(key, fallback)`

#### Description

> Returns the current translation by key from the currently active page.

#### Return Type
{% raw %}

```lua
string
```
{% endraw %}
#### Usage

##### `content/en/example.txt`

{% raw %}
```yaml
---
layout: example.html

locale:
  title: Welcome to {{portal.name}}
  slogan: The best developer portal ever created.
---
```
{% endraw %}

##### `content/es/example.txt`

{% raw %}
```yaml
---
layout: example.html

locale:
  title: Bienvenido a {{portal.name}}
  slogan: El mejor portal para desarrolladores jamás creado.
---
```
{% endraw %}

##### `layouts/example.html`

{% raw %}
```lua
<h1>{* l("title", "Welcome to" .. portal.name) *}</h1>
<p>{* l("slogan", "My amazing developer portal!") *}</p>
<p>{* l("powered_by", "Powered by Kong.") *}</p>
```
{% endraw %}

##### Output when on `en/example`

{% raw %}
```html
<h1>Welcome to Kong Portal</h1>
<p>The best developer portal ever created.</p>
<p>Powered by Kong.</p>
```
{% endraw %}

##### Output when on `es/example`

{% raw %}
```html
<h1>Bienvenido a Kong Portal</h1>
<p>El mejor portal para desarrolladores jamás creado.</p>
<p>Powered by Kong.</p>
```
{% endraw %}

#### Notes

> - `l(...)` is a helper from the `page` object. It can be also accessed via `page.l`. However `page.l` does not support template interpolation (aka `{{portal.name}}` will not work.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `l(...)` is a helper from the `page` object. It can be also accessed via `page.l`. However, `page.l` does not support template interpolation ( `{{portal.name}}` will not work.)
```

aka means also known as and is not appropriate

## `each(list_or_table)`

#### Description

> Returns the appropriate iterator depending on what type of argument is passed.

#### Return Type

```lua
Iterator
```

#### Usage

##### Template (List)

{% raw %}
```lua
{% for index, value in each(table) do %}
<ul>
  <li>Index: {{index}}</li>
  <li>Value: {{ print(value) }}</li>
</ul>
{% end %}
```
{% endraw %}

##### Template (Table)

{% raw %}
```lua
{% for key, value in each(table) do %}
<ul>
  <li>Key: {{key}}</li>
  <li>Value: {{ print(value) }}</li>
</ul>
{% end %}
```
{% endraw %}

## `print(any)`

#### Description

> > Returns stringified output of input value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Returns stringified output of input value.
```

#### Return Type

```lua
string
```

#### Usage

##### Template (Table)

{% raw %}
```lua
<pre>{{print(page)}}</pre>
```
{% endraw %}

## `markdown(string)`

#### Description

> > Returns HTML from the markdown string passed as an argument. If string argument is not valid markdown, the function will return the string as is. In order to render properly the helper should be used with raw "{* *}" delimeters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Returns HTML from the markdown string passed as an argument. If a string argument is not valid markdown, the function will return the string as is. To render properly, the helper should be used with raw "{* *}" delimiters.
```

> > Returns HTML from the markdown string passed as an argument.  If string argument is not valid markdown, the function will return the string as is.  In order to render properly the helper should be used with raw "{* *}" delimeters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Returns HTML from the markdown string passed as an argument. If string argument is not valid markdown, the function will return the string as is.  In order to render properly the helper should be used with raw "{* *}" delimeters.
```

> > Returns HTML from the markdown string passed as an argument.  If string argument is not valid markdown, the function will return the string as is.  In order to render properly the helper should be used with raw "{* *}" delimeters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Returns HTML from the markdown string passed as an argument.  If the string argument is not valid markdown, the function will return the string as-is.  In order to render properly the helper should be used with raw "{* *}" delimiters.
```

### `portal.url`

#### Description

> Returns the current portal's url with workspace.

#### Return Type

```lua
string
```

#### Usage

##### Template

{% raw %}
```hbs
{{portal.url}}
```
{% endraw %}

##### Output

```html
http://127.0.0.1:8003/default
```

## `portal.api_url`

#### Description

> Returns the configuration value for `portal_api_url` with
> the current workspace appended.

#### Return Type

```lua
string or nil
```

#### Usage

##### Template

{% raw %}
```hbs
{{portal.api_url}}
```
{% endraw %}

##### Output when `portal_api_url = http://127.0.0.1:8004`

```html
http://127.0.0.1:8004/default
```

### `portal.auth`

#### Description

> Returns the current portal's authentication type.

#### Return Type

```lua
string
```

#### Usage

#### Printing Value

###### Input

{% raw %}
```hbs
{{portal.auth}}
```
{% endraw %}

###### Output when `portal_auth = basic-auth`

```html
basic-auth
```

#### Checking Authentication Enabled

###### Input

{% raw %}
```hbs
{% if portal.auth then %}
  Authentication is enabled!
{% end %}
```
{% endraw %}

###### Output when `portal_auth = basic-auth`

```html
Authentication is endabled!
```

### `portal.specs`

#### Description

> Returns an array of specification files contained within the current portal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns an array of specification files contained within the current portal.
```

#### Return type

```lua
array
```

#### Usage

##### Viewing content value

###### Template

{% raw %}
```hbs
<pre>{{ print(portal.specs) }}</pre>
```
{% endraw %}

###### Output

```lua
{
  {
    "path" = "content/example1_spec.json",
    "content" = "..."
  },
  {
    "path" = "content/documentation/example1_spec.json",
    "content" = "..."
  },
  ...
}
```

##### Looping through values

###### Template

{% raw %}
```hbs
{% for _, spec in each(portal.specs) %}
  <li>{{spec.path}}</li>
{% end %}
```
{% endraw %}

###### Output

```hbs
  <li>content/example1_spec.json</li>
  <li>content/documentation/example1_spec.json</li>
```

##### Filter by path

###### Template

{% raw %}
```hbs
{% for _, spec in each(helpers.filter_by_path(portal.specs, "content/documentation")) %}
  <li>{{spec.path}}</li>
{% end %}
```
{% endraw %}
###### Output

```hbs
  <li>content/documentation/example1_spec.json</li>
```

### `portal.developer_meta_fields`

#### Description

> Returns an array of developer meta fields available/required by kong to register a developer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns an array of developer meta fields available/required by Kong to register a developer.
```
are the meta fields all required?

#### Return Type

```lua
array
```

#### Usage

##### Printing

###### Template

{% raw %}
```hbs
{{ print(portal.developer_meta_fields) }}
```
{% endraw %}

###### Output

{% raw %}
```lua
{
  {
    label    = "Full Name",
    name     = "full_name",
    type     = "text",
    required = true,
  },
  ...
}
```
{% endraw %}

#### Looping

###### Template

{% raw %}
```hbs
{% for i, field in each(portal.developer_meta_fields) do %}
<ul>
  <li>Label: {{field.label}}</li>
  <li>Name: {{field.name}}</li>
  <li>Type: {{field.type}}</li>
  <li>Required: {{field.required}}</li>
</ul>
{% end %}
```
{% endraw %}

###### Output

```html
<ul>
  <li>Label: Full Name</li>
  <li>Name: full_name</li>
  <li>Type: text</li>
  <li>Required: true</li>
</ul>
...
```

# `page`

> > `page` gives access to data relating to the current page, this includes things like page url, path, breadcrumbs...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> `page` gives access to data relating to the current page, which includes things like page url, path, breadcrumbs, and more.
```

---

- [How to access content values](#how-to-access-content-values)
- [Page Members](#page-members)
  - [`page.route`](#pageroute)
  - [`page.url`](#pageurl)
  - [`page.breadcrumbs`](#pagebreadcrumbs)
  - [`page.body`](#pagebody)
  - [`page.parsed_body`](#parsedbody)
---

## How to access content values

> When you create a new content page, you are able to define key-values. Here you are going to learn how to access those values and a few interesting things.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you create a new content page, you are able to define key-values. Here you are going to learn how to access those values and a few other interesting things.
```

such as?

You can access the key-values you define directly on the `page` object like so:

{% raw %}
```lua
page[key_name] or page.key_name
```
{% endraw %}

You can also access nested keys like so:

```lua
page.key_name.nested_key
```
{% raw %}

> > Be careful! Make sure that the `key_name` exists before accessing `nested_key` like so to avoid output errors:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Be careful! To avoid output errors, make sure that the `key_name` exists before accessing `nested_key` as shown below:
```

> ```hbs
> {{page.key_name and page.key_name.nested_key}}
> ```
{% endraw %}

## Page Members
### `page.route`

#### Description

> > Returns the current page's route / path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Returns the current page's route/path.
```

#### Return Type

```lua
string
```

#### Usage

##### Template

{% raw %}
```hbs
{{page.route}}
```
{% endraw %}

##### Output given url is `http://127.0.0.1:8003/default/guides/getting-started`

```html
guides/getting-started
```

### `page.url`

#### Description

> > Returns the current page's url

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Returns the current page's url.
```

#### Return Type

```lua
string
```

#### Usage

##### Template

{% raw %}
```hbs
{{page.url}}
```
{% endraw %}

##### Output given url is `http://127.0.0.1:8003/default/guides/getting-started`

```html
http://127.0.0.1:8003/default/guides/getting-started
```

### `page.breadcrumbs`

#### Description

> > Returns the current page's breadcrumb collection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Returns the current page's breadcrumb collection.
```

#### Return Type

```lua
table[]
```

#### Item Properties

- `item.path` - Full path to item, no forward-slash prefix.

> - `item.display_name` - Formatted name

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `item.display_name` - Formatted name.
```

- `item.is_first` - Is this the first item in the list?
- `item.is_last` - Is this the last item in the list?

#### Usage

##### Template

{% raw %}
```hbs
<div id="breadcrumbs">
  <a href="">Home</a>
  {% for i, crumb in each(page.breadcrumbs) do %}
    {% if crumb.is_last then %}
      / {{ crumb.display_name }}
    {% else %}
      / <a href="{{crumb.path}}">{{ crumb.display_name }}</a>
    {% end %}
  {% end %}
</div>
```
{% endraw %}

### `page.body`

#### Description

> > Returns the body of the current page as a string. If the routes content file has a `.md` or `.markdown` extension, the body will be parsed from markdown to html.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Returns the body of the current page as a string. If the route's content file has a `.md` or `.markdown` extension, the body will be parsed from markdown to html.
```

#### Return Type

```lua
string
```

#### Usage for .txt, .json, .yaml, .yml templates

##### index.txt
```hbs
This is text content.
```

{% raw %}
##### Template
```hbs
<h1>This is a title</h1>
<p>{{ page.body) }}</p>
```
{% endraw %}

##### Output
> # This is a title

> > This is text content

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> This is text content.
```

#### Usage for .md, .markdown templates

##### Template (markdown)

> You must use the raw delimiter syntax `{* *}` in order to render markdown within a template.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must use the raw delimiter syntax `{* *}`  to render markdown within a template.
```

##### index.txt
```hbs
# This is a title
This is text content.
```

##### Template
```hbs
{* page.body *}
```

##### Output
> # This is a title

> > This is text content

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> This is text content.
```

# `user`

> > `user` gives access to data relating to the current authenticated user.  User object is only applicable when `KONG_PORTAL_AUTH` is enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> `user` gives access to data relating to the currently authenticated user.  User object is only applicable when `KONG_PORTAL_AUTH` is enabled.
```

---

- [User Members](#user-members)
  - [`user.is_authenticated`](#useris_authenticated)
  - [`user.has_role`](#userhas_role)
  - [`user.get`](#userget)

---

## User Members

### `user.is_authenticated`

#### Description

> > Returns `boolean` value as to the current users authentication status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Returns `boolean` value as to the current user's authentication status.
```

#### Return Type

```lua
boolean
```

#### Usage

##### Template

{% raw %}
```hbs
{{print(user.is_authenticated)}}
```
{% endraw %}

##### Output

```html
true
```

### `user.has_role`

#### Description

> > Returns `true` if user has role given as argument.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Returns `true` if a user has a role given as an argument.
```

#### Return Type

```lua
boolean
```

#### Usage

##### Template

{% raw %}
```hbs
{{print(user.has_role("blue"))}}
```
{% endraw %}

##### Output

```html
true
```

### `user.get`

#### Description

> Takes developer attribute as an argument and returns value if present.

#### Return Type

```lua
any
```

#### Usage

##### Template

{% raw %}
```hbs
{{user.get("email")}}
{{print(user.get("meta"))}}
```
{% endraw %}

##### Output

```html
example123@konghq.com
{ "full_name" = "example" }
```

# `theme`

> > The `theme` object exposes values set in your `theme.conf.yaml` file.  In addition any variable overrides contained in `portal.conf.yaml` will be included as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The `theme` object exposes values set in your `theme.conf.yaml` file.  In addition, any variable overrides contained in `portal.conf.yaml` will be included as well.
```
clause needs comma

---

- [Theme Members](#theme-members)
  - [`theme.colors`](#usercolors)
  - [`theme.color`](#usercolor)
  - [`theme.fonts`](#userfonts)
  - [`theme.font`](#userfont)

---

## Theme Members

### `theme.colors`

#### Description

> > Returns table of color vars and their values as key value pairs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Returns a table of color variables and their values as key-value pairs.
```

##### theme.conf.yaml
```yaml
name: Kong
colors:
  primary:
    value: '#FFFFFF'
    description: 'Primary Color'
  secondary:
    value: '#000000'
    description: 'Secondary Color'
  tertiary:
    value: '#1DBAC2'
    description: 'Tertiary Color'
```

##### Template

{% raw %}
```lua
{% for k,v in each(theme.colors) do %}
  <p>{{k}}: {{v}}</p>
{% end %}
```
{% endraw %}

##### Output

```html
<p>primary: #FFFFFF</p>
<p>secondary: #000000</p>
<p>tertiary: #1DBAC2</p>
```

### `theme.color`

#### Description

> Takes color var by string argument, returns value.

#### Return Type

```lua
string
```

#### Usage

##### theme.conf.yaml
```yaml
name: Kong
colors:
  primary:
    value: '#FFFFFF'
    description: 'Primary Color'
  secondary:
    value: '#000000'
    description: 'Secondary Color'
  tertiary:
    value: '#1DBAC2'
    description: 'Tertiary Color'
```

##### Template

{% raw %}
```lua
<p>primary: {{theme.color("primary")}}</p>
<p>secondary: {{theme.color("secondary")}}</p>
<p>tertiary: {{theme.color("tertiary")}}</p>
```
{% endraw %}

##### Output

```html
<p>primary: #FFFFFF</p>
<p>secondary: #000000</p>
<p>tertiary: #1DBAC2</p>
```

### `theme.fonts`

#### Description

> > Returns table of font vars and their values as key value pairs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Returns table of font vars and their values as key-value pairs.
```

needs to be hyphenated here because it modifies pairs

#### Return Type

```lua
table
```

#### Usage

##### theme.conf.yaml
```yaml
name: Kong
fonts:
  base: Roboto
  code: Roboto Mono
  headings: Lato
```

##### Template

{% raw %}
```lua
{% for k,v in each(theme.fonts) do %}
  <p>{{k}}: {{v}}</p>
{% end %}
```
{% endraw %}

##### Output

```html
<p>base: Roboto</p>
<p>code: Roboto Mono</p>
<p>headings: Lato</p>
```

### `theme.font`

#### Description

> Takes font name by string argument, returns value.

#### Return Type

```lua
string
```

#### Usage

##### theme.conf.yaml
```yaml
name: Kong
fonts:
  base: Roboto
  code: Roboto Mono
  headings: Lato
```

##### Template

{% raw %}
```lua
<p>base: {{theme.font("base")}}</p>
<p>code: {{theme.font("code")}}</p>
<p>headings: {{theme.font("headings")}}</p>
```
{% endraw %}

##### Output

```html
<p>base: #FFFFFF</p>
<p>code: #000000</p>
<p>headings: #1DBAC2</p>
```

## `str`

#### Description

> > Table containing useful string helper methods

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Table containing useful string helper methods.
```

#### Usage

{% raw %}
##### _.upper()_ example
```lua
<pre>{{ str.upper("dog") }}</pre>
```
{% endraw %}

> #### Methods

Reviewer 2: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3756245/82369361-80bdd200-99dc-11ea-8184-f65a3d145944.png)
These sections aren't rendering properly I don't think. Add a space between each per https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#heading-best-practices and see if it looks like you want it too.

Author: I'm not sure what is best for this. Perhaps @Jlawlzz  has the answer

Reviewer 3: It looks like we need a space between each one, happy to make the change!

#####str.[strip](https://stevedonovan.github.io/Penlight/api/libraries/pl.stringx.html#strip)
#####str.[splitv](https://stevedonovan.github.io/Penlight/api/libraries/pl.stringx.html#splitv)
#####str.[partition](https://stevedonovan.github.io/Penlight/api/libraries/pl.stringx.html#partition)
#####str.[rpartition](https://stevedonovan.github.io/Penlight/api/libraries/pl.stringx.html#rpartition)
#####str.[at](https://stevedonovan.github.io/Penlight/api/libraries/pl.stringx.html#at)
#####str.[lines](https://stevedonovan.github.io/Penlight/api/libraries/pl.stringx.html#lines)
#####str.[title](https://stevedonovan.github.io/Penlight/api/libraries/pl.stringx.html#title)
#####str.[shorten](https://stevedonovan.github.io/Penlight/api/libraries/pl.stringx.html#shorten)
#####str.[quote_string](https://stevedonovan.github.io/Penlight/api/libraries/pl.stringx.html#quote_string)

## `tbl`

#### Description

> Table containing useful table helper methods

#### Usage

##### _.map()_ example
{% raw %}
```lua
{% tbl.map({"dog", "cat"}, function(item) %}
  {% if item ~= "dog" then %}
    {% return true %}
  {% end %}
{% end) %}
```
{% endraw %}

#### Methods

> #####tbl.[getn](https://www.gammon.com.au/scripts/doc.php?lua=table.getn)

Reviewer 2: same comment as above. what should the format be here?
